# Spreewald

Spreewald is a collection of useful steps for cucumber. Feel free to fork.

You can find a list of all contained steps at the end of this README.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'spreewald'

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install spreewald


## Supported RSpec versions

Spreewald supports RSpec >= 2.13.0

## Usage

Require all Spreewald steps by putting

    require 'spreewald/all_steps'

into either your `support/env.rb` or `step_definitions/spreewald_steps.rb`.

Steps are grouped into a number of categories. If you only want to use a subset
of Spreewald's steps, you can pick and choose single categories by requiring
single files like this:

    require 'spreewald/email_steps'
    require 'spreewald/web_steps'

Have a look at our [recommended Capybara defaults](#recommended-capybara-defaults) as they impact the behavior of many Spreewald steps.

## Spreewald binary

Spreewald comes with a binary that prints a list of all Cucumber steps from
Spreewald _and your project_. It will filter the list by any string you
pass it. Example usage:

```bash
spreewald # lists all steps
spreewald mail # lists all steps that contain "mail"
```

The binary also prints paths and selectors; run `spreewald --help` to learn more.


## Waiting for page load

Spreewald's web steps are all aware that you might run them with a Selenium/Capybara webdriver, and wait for the browser to finish loading the page, if necessary.

This is done by rerunning any assertions until they succeed or a timeout is reached.

We consider a couple of potential exceptions as "retriable", including

    Capybara::ElementNotFound, (R)Spec::Expectations::ExpectationNotMetError, Capybara::Poltergeist::ClickFailed

You can add your own error class with

    ToleranceForSeleniumSyncIssues::RETRY_ERRORS << 'MyCustomError'

You can achieve this in your own steps by wrapping them inside a `patiently do` block, like

    Then /^I should see "([^\"]*)" in the HTML$/ do |text|
      patiently do
        page.body.should include(text)
      end
    end

More info [here](https://makandracards.com/makandra/12139-waiting-for-page-load-with-spreewald).


## Overriding steps

Thanks to [cucumber_priority](https://github.com/makandra/cucumber_priority) you can override any step definition from Spreewald with your own pattern. Cucumber will not raise `Cucumber::Ambiguous` if your custom steps collide with a Spreewald step.


## Recommended Capybara defaults

If you are upgrading from Capybara 2 to Capybara 3, you might [see failing tests](https://github.com/makandra/spreewald/issues/95) with Spreewald steps like `I should see`. This is caused by a breaking change in [Capybara's Finders](https://www.rubydoc.info/github/jnicklas/capybara/Capybara/Node/Finders) that accept a `:text` option. To activate Capybara 2 behavior globally in your project, enable this flag:

```ruby
Capybara.default_normalize_ws = true
````

This will affect all Spreewald steps that are using Capybara's `:text` option.

Furthermore, we recommend setting [Capybara's matching strategy](https://github.com/teamcapybara/capybara/blob/master/README.md#strategy) to `:prefer_exact`. This will positively affect Spreewald steps as it prevents the `Capybara::Ambiguous` error in the edge case when two fields are matching the given name, but one of the matches includes the name only as a substring,

```ruby
Capybara.match = :prefer_exact
````

If you want Spreewald to match fields, links and buttons against the `aria-label` attribute, enable the following global configuration in Capybara 2.8+: 

```ruby
Capybara.enable_aria_label = true
```

## Contributing

### Testing

[Gemika](https://github.com/makandra/gemika) is used to manage Gemfiles for different ruby versions.

Spreewald has different kind of tests:
- Unit tests live in `spec/`
- Test applications for integration tests with various Capybara versions live in `tests/`. 
- Tests for the Spreewald binary live in `features/`

Run all tests for your current ruby version with `rake` or `rake matrix:tests`. To bundle use `rake matrix:install` first.

Please note that you need [geordi](https://github.com/makandra/geordi) to run the integration tests.


### If you would like to contribute:

- Fork the repository
- Push your changes with specs
- Make sure `rake` passes
- Regenerate the "Steps" section of this Readme with `rake update_readme`, if needed
- Make a pull request


## This README

The "Steps" section is autogenerated by `rake update_readme` from comments in
the step definitions.


## Steps

### browser_tab_steps.rb 

* **When I open ... in a new browser tab**

  Opens [the page](https://github.com/makandra/spreewald/blob/master/examples/paths.rb) in a new browser tab and switches to it.


* **When I close the browser tab**

  Closes the current browser tab and switches back to the first tab.


* **When I switch to the new(ly opened)? browser tab**

  Waits for the new browser tab to appear, then switches to it.


* **When I switch( back)? to the previous browser tab**

  Changes the browser context to the second-last browser tab.


* **When I may open a new browser tab**

  Required for the check whether a new browser tab was opened or not.


* **Then I should( not)? have opened a new browser tab**

  Example (positive expectation):
  
      When I may open a new browser tab
        And I click on "Open link in new browser tab"
      Then I should have opened a new browser tab
  
  Example (negative expectation):
  
      When I may open a new browser tab
        And I click on "Open link in current browser tab"
      Then I should not have opened a new browser tab


* **Then there should be (\d+) browser tabs?**


* **Then there should be at least (\d+) browser tabs?**


### development_steps.rb 

* **Then it should work...?**

  Marks scenario as pending, optionally explained with a reason.


* **Then console**

  Pauses test execution and opens an IRB shell with current context. Does not halt the application-
  under-test. (Replaces the "Then debugger" step that has never been adequate
  for its job)


* **AfterStep @slow-motion**

  Waits 2 seconds after each step


* **AfterStep @single-step**

  Waits for a keypress after each step


### email_steps.rb 

* **When I clear my e?mails**


* **Then (an?|no)( HTML| plain-text|) e?mail should have been sent with:**

  Example:
  
      Then an email should have been sent with:
        """
        From: max.mustermann@example.com
        Reply-To: mmuster@gmail.com
        To: john.doe@example.com
        CC: jane.doe@example.com
        BCC: johnny.doe@example.com
        Subject: The subject may contain "quotes"
        Attachments: image.jpg, attachment.pdf
  
        This is the message body. You can use * as a wildcard to omit the rest
        of a line *
        Or you can omit multiple lines if the asterisk is the only
        character in a single line, like this:
        *
  
        """
  
  You may skip lines in the header, of course.


* **When I follow the (first|second|third)? link in the e?mail**

  Please note that this step will only follow HTTP and HTTPS links.
  Other links (such as mailto: or ftp:// links) are ignored.


* **Then no e?mail should have been sent**


* **Then I should see "..." in the( HTML| plain-text|) e?mail**

  Checks that the last sent email includes some text


* **Then show me the e?mail( header)?s**

  Print all sent emails to STDOUT (optionally only the headers).


* **Then show me the e?mail( header)?s with:**

  Print a subset of all sent emails to STDOUT
  This uses the same syntax as `Then an email should have been sent with:`


### file_attachment_steps.rb 

* **Given the file "..." was attached( as (.../)?...)? to the ... above( at "...")?**

  This step is deprecated and will be removed from spreewald. If you still want to use it, copy the code to your project's own steps.


### session_steps.rb 

* **When ... in the browser session "..."**

  You can append `in the browser session "name"` to any other step to execute
  the step in a different browser session.
  
  You may need to update other steps to allow multiple sessions (e.g. your
  authentication steps have to support multiple logged in users).
  More details [here](https://makandracards.com/makandra/474480-how-to-make-a-cucumber-test-work-with-multiple-browser-sessions).


### table_steps.rb 

* **Then I should( not)? see a table with (exactly )?the following rows( in any order)?:?**

  Check the content of tables in your HTML.
  
  See [this article](https://makandracards.com/makandra/763-cucumber-step-to-match-table-rows-with-capybara) for details.


### time_steps.rb 

Steps to travel through time

This uses [Timecop](https://github.com/jtrupiano/timecop) or Active Support 4.1+ to stub Time.now / Time.current.
The user is responsible for including one of the two gems.

Please note that the two approaches branch. While ActiveSupport will freeze the time, Timecop will keep it running.


* **When the (date|time) is "?(\d{4}-\d{2}-\d{2}( \d{1,2}:\d{2})?)"?**

  Example:
  
      Given the date is 2012-02-10
      Given the time is 2012-02-10 13:40


* **When the time is "?(\d{1,2}:\d{2})"?**

  Example:
  
      Given the time is 13:40


* **When it is (\d+|an?|some|a few) (seconds?|minutes?|hours?|days?|weeks?|months?|years?) (later|earlier)**

  Example:
  
      When it is 10 minutes later
      When it is a few hours earlier




### web_steps.rb 

Most of cucumber-rails' original web steps plus a few of our own.

Note that cucumber-rails deprecated all its steps quite a while ago with the following
deprecation notice. Decide for yourself whether you want to use them:

> This file was generated by Cucumber-Rails and is only here to get you a head start
> These step definitions are thin wrappers around the Capybara/Webrat API that lets you
> visit pages, interact with widgets and make assertions about page content.

> If you use these step definitions as basis for your features you will quickly end up
> with features that are:

> * Hard to maintain
> * Verbose to read

> A much better approach is to write your own higher level step definitions, following
> the advice in the following blog posts:

> * http://benmabey.com/2008/05/19/imperative-vs-declarative-scenarios-in-user-stories.html
> * http://dannorth.net/2011/01/31/whose-domain-is-it-anyway/
> * http://elabs.se/blog/15-you-re-cuking-it-wrong



* **When ... within ...**

  You can append `within [selector]` to any other web step, even multiple times.
  Be aware that within will only look at the first element that matches.
  If this is a problem for you following links, you might want to have a look
  at the 'When I follow "..." inside any "..."'-step.
  
  Example:
  
      Then I should see "some text" within ".page_body"


* **Given I am on ...**


* **When I go to ...**


* **Then I should be on ...**


* **When I press "..."**


* **When I follow "..."**


* **When I fill in "..." (with|for) "..."**

  Fill in text field


* **When I fill in "..." (with|for):**

  Fill in text field with multi-line block
  You can use a doc string to supply multi-line text
  
  Example:
  
      When I fill in "some field" with:
      """
      Apple
      Banana
      Pear
      """


* **When I fill in "..." (with|for) '...'**

  Fill in text field


* **When I select "..." from "..."**

  Select from select box


* **When I check "..."**

  Check a checkbox


* **When I uncheck "..."**

  Uncheck a checkbox


* **When I choose "..."**

  Select a radio button


* **When I attach the file "..." to "..."**

  Attach a file to a file upload form field


* **Then I should see "..."**

  Checks that some text appears on the page
  
  Note that this does not detect if the text might be hidden via CSS


* **Then I should see /.../**

  Checks that a regexp appears on the page
  
  Note that this does not detect if the text might be hidden via CSS


* **Then I should not see "..."**


* **Then I should not see /.../**


* **Then I should( not)? see a field "..."**

  Checks for the existance of an input field (given its id or label)


* **Then I should( not)? see the (number|amount) ([\-\d,\.]+)( ...)?**

  Use this step to test for a number or money amount instead of a simple `Then I should see`
  
  Checks for an unexpected minus sign, correct decimal places etc.
  
  See [here](https://makandracards.com/makandra/1225-test-that-a-number-or-money-amount-is-shown-with-cucumber) for details


* **Then I should see '...'**

  Like `Then I should see`, but with single instead of double quotes. In case
  the expected string contains quotes as well.


* **Then I should see "..." in the HTML**

  Check that the raw HTML contains a string


* **Then I should not see "..." in the HTML**


* **Then I should see an error**

  Checks that status code is 400..599


* **Then I should (not )?see (an|the) element "..."**

  Check that an element with the given selector is present on the page.
  
  Example:
  
      Then I should see an element ".panel"
      Then I should see the element ".panel"
      Then I should not see an element ".sidebar"
      Then I should not see the element ".sidebar"


* **Then I should (not )?see (an|the) element for ...**

  Check that an element with the given [selector alias](https://github.com/makandra/spreewald/blob/master/examples/selectors.rb) is present on the page.
  
  Example:
  
      Then I should see an element for the panel
      Then I should see the element for the panel
      Then I should not see an element for the sidebar
      Then I should not see the element for the sidebar


* **Then I should see in this order:?**

  Checks that these strings are rendered in the given order in a single line or in multiple lines
  
  Example:
  
      Then I should see in this order:
        | Alpha Group |
        | Augsburg    |
        | Berlin      |
        | Beta Group  |


* **Then I should( not)? see a link labeled "..."**

  Checks that the page contains a link with a given text or title attribute.


* **Then the "..." field should (not )?contain "..."**

  Checks that an input field contains some value (allowing * as wildcard character)


* **Then the "..." field should (not )?contain:**

  Checks that a multiline textarea contains some value (allowing * as wildcard character)


* **Then I should see a form with the following values:**

  Checks that a list of label/value pairs are visible as control inputs.
  
  Example:
  
      Then I should see a form with the following values:
        | E-mail | foo@bar.com   |
        | Role   | Administrator |


* **Then the "..." field should have the error "..."**

  Checks that an input field was wrapped with a validation error


* **Then the "..." field should( not)? have an error**


* **Then the "..." field should have no error**


* **Then the "..." checkbox should( not)? be checked?**


* **Then the radio button "..." should( not)? be (checked|selected)**


* **Then I should have the following query string:**

  Example:
  
      I should have the following query string:
        | locale        | de  |
        | currency_code | EUR |
  
  Succeeds when the URL contains the given `locale` and `currency_code` params


* **Then show me the page**

  Open the current Capybara page using the `launchy` or `capybara_screenshot` gem


* **Then I should get a response with content-type "..."**

  Checks `Content-Type` HTTP header


* **Then I should get a download with filename "..."**

  Checks `Content-Disposition` HTTP header
  
  Attention: Doesn't work with Selenium, see https://github.com/jnicklas/capybara#gotchas


* **Then "..." should( not)? be selected for "..."**

  Checks that a certain option is selected for a text field


* **Then nothing should be selected for "..."**


* **Then "..." should( not)? be an option for "..."**

  Checks for the presence of an option in a select


* **Then the window should be titled "..."**


* **When I reload the page**


* **Then (the tag )?"..." should( not)? be visible**

  Checks that an element is actually present and visible, also considering styles.
  Within a selenium test, the browser is asked whether the element is really visible
  In a non-selenium test, we only check for `.hidden`, `.invisible` or `style: display:none`
  
  The step 'Then (the tag )?"..." should **not** be visible' is ambiguous. Please use 'Then (the tag )?"..." should be hidden' or 'Then I should not see "..."' instead. Note that the **not** option will be removed in future versions of Spreewald.
  
  More details [here](https://makandracards.com/makandra/1049-capybara-check-that-a-page-element-is-hidden-via-css)


* **Then (the tag )?"..." should be hidden**

  Checks that an element is actually present and hidden, also considering styles.
  Within a selenium test, the browser is asked whether the element is really hidden.
  In a non-selenium test, we only check for `.hidden`, `.invisible` or `style: display:none`


* **When I click on "..."**

  Click on some text that might not be a link.
  
  Example:
  
      When I click on "Collapse"



* **When I click on the element "..."**

  Click on an element with the given selector.
  
  Example:
  
      When I click on the element ".sidebar"



* **When I click on the element for ...**

  Click on the element with the given [selector alias](https://github.com/makandra/spreewald/blob/master/examples/selectors.rb).
  
  Example:
  
      When I click on the element for the sidebar


* **Then "..." should link to "..."**

  Use this step to check external links.
  
  Example:
  
      Then "Sponsor" should link to "http://makandra.com/"
  
  Don't forget the trailing slash. Otherwise you'll get the error
    expected: /http:\/\/makandra.com(\?[^\/]*)?$/
         got: "http://makandra.com/" (using =~)


* **Then I should get a text response**

  Checks that the result has content type `text/plain`


* **When I follow "..." inside any "..."**

  Click a link within an element matching the given selector. Will try to be clever
  and disregard elements that don't contain a matching link.
  
  Example:
  
      When I follow "Read more" inside any ".text_snippet"


* **Then I should( not)? see "..." inside any "..."**


* **When I fill in "..." with "..." inside any "..."**


* **When I confirm the browser dialog**


* **When I cancel the browser dialog**


* **When I enter "..." into the browser dialog**


* **Then the "..." (field|button|checkbox|radio button) should( not)? be disabled**

  Tests that an input, button, checkbox or radio button with the given label is disabled.


* **Then the "..." field should( not)? be visible**

  Tests that a field with the given label is visible.


* **When I wait for the page to load**

  Waits for the page to finish loading and AJAX requests to finish.
  
  More details [here](https://makandracards.com/makandra/12139-waiting-for-page-loads-and-ajax-requests-to-finish-with-capybara).


* **When I perform basic authentication as ".../..." and go to ...**

  Performs HTTP basic authentication with the given credentials and visits the given path.
  
  More details [here](https://makandracards.com/makandra/971-perform-http-basic-authentication-in-cucumber).


* **When I go back**

  Goes to the previously viewed page.


* **Then the "..." select should( not)? be sorted**

  Tests whether a select field is sorted. Uses Array#natural_sort, if defined;
  Array#sort else.
